                                          DASSAULT SYSTEMES
                                    OFFERING SPECIFIC TERMS (OST) FOR
                                          3DEXPERIENCE R2017x
                                          LICENSED PROGRAMS

This OST (Offering Specific Terms) and the terms incorporated herein by reference (including terms referenced on a website) are an integral
part of the license and online services agreement between DS and Customer (“Agreement”), which refers to this OST. In the event of a
discrepancy, inconsistency or contradiction between this OST and the other terms of the Agreement, the provisions of this OST shall prevail,
but only with respect to the Licensed Programs to which this OST applies. Customer acknowledges that it has full knowledge of all the terms
of this OST and those incorporated herein by reference.


1. PRICING STRUCTURES

Licenses and Support Services for the Licensed Programs to which this OST applies are granted according to the pricing structures
mentioned in the related Transaction Document. Standard pricing structures are defined in the section “DEFINITIONS” of this OST, even
though those pricing structures may not be applicable to the DS Offerings to which this OST applies. Other pricing structures may be made
available on a case by case basis.


2. LICENSING SCHEMES AND GEOGRAPHIC SCOPE

2.1.    GENERAL RULES

Licenses for the Licensed Programs to which this OST applies may be granted according to one of the following licensing schemes
(specifying the authorized use), as specified in the Product Portfolio if available, and as determined in the applicable Transaction Document:

               Casual Named User Based
               Concurrent (or Floating) Based
               Named User Based
               System License
               Token Based

Licenses for the Licensed Programs to which this OST applies are granted for use on Machines by the Users (and Extended Enterprise
Users, as applicable) only in the country for which the licenses are ordered. However, (i) Users, whose usual workplace is located in the
same country as the country where such use of the Licensed Programs has been authorized, may use the Licensed Programs in any other
country (subject inter alia to the export and re-export laws and regulations provisions of the Agreement) for purposes of a business trip of a
maximum of thirty (30) consecutive days and (ii) DS may authorize, on a case-by-case basis, the use of certain Licensed Programs by the
Users (and Extended Enterprise Users, as applicable) on a Remote Access mode.

It is agreed that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided in the Documentation, software components packaged and delivered by
DS as part of a given DS Offering:
               shall solely be used together and as part of such DS Offering and
               shall not be used standalone and/or for other purposes than the ones for which such DS Offering has been marketed and
                granted to Customer by DS.

If a patent invention is implemented in the DS Offering for which a right to use or access is granted pursuant to the Agreement, DS hereby
grants Customer a non-exclusive license on the applicable patent limited to the use of such DS Offering.

2.2.    SPECIFIC PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN DS OFFERINGS

Analytics Engine (6MP-EUS), any Licensed Programs whose name contains "Connector For Indexing":
Each of these Licensed Programs is eligible for production purpose on one or several Machines within the limited number of related ordered
tokens. Upon request, Customer can be granted two hundred percent (200 %) additional tokens to be able to use these Licensed Programs
for non-production purpose on dedicated Machines.

Therapeutics Index (6MP-B01), Issue Index (6MP-IIK):
Each of these Licensed Programs is eligible for production purpose on one or several Machines within the limited overall indexing capacity of
such related Licensed Programs, as specified in the Documentation. Upon request, Customer can be granted two hundred percent (200 %)


DS OST for 3DEXPERIENCE R2017x Licensed Programs – November 2016                                                                           1/7
additional indexing capacity of such Licensed Programs to be able to use these Licensed Programs for non-production purpose on dedicated
Machines.

Behavior (Modelica) libraries:
As an exception to the Agreement, for Licensed Programs which give access to behavior (Modelica) libraries as defined in the
Documentation, as long as the corresponding license for the Licensed Programs is valid, DS grants Customer a non-exclusive, non-
transferable license to prepare Derivative Works of the Value Added Technology only. Customer may distribute such Derivative Works of the
Value Added Technology to third parties exclusively in Object Code form. In addition, Customer is granted the right to modify, copy, and
distribute those parts of the Value Added Technology expressly marked as “sample code,” if applicable. However, Customer shall not use,
and shall not permit any third party to use, any form or part of the Value Added Technology (including without limitation, such as included in
a Source Code Output File, a Binary Output File and/or Obfuscated Source Code) to develop a software program competing or intended to
compete directly or indirectly with the Licensed Programs to which this OST applies, for whatever purpose.
For the avoidance of doubt and without prejudice to the Agreement, distribution of any element of the Value Added Technology in whatever
form (whether “as is” or included in a Derivative Work, Customer Model, Customer Application or Binary Output File, and/or “sample code”),
as authorized pursuant hereto remains subject to the export and re-export laws and regulations provisions of the Agreement.
In addition, Customer shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless DS against any claim, expense, cost (including reasonable attorneys’
fees), judgment, damage, or loss of any kind arising out of or in any way relating to, such distribution and/or any third party’s access to or
use of such Value Added Technology in whatever form.
Notwithstanding any term or condition of the Agreement, DS shall have no obligation whatsoever to defend, hold harmless or indemnify
Customer against any claim arising out of or in any way relating to the distribution or redistribution, directly or indirectly, including as part of
any services, of the Value Added Technology in whatever form (including, without limitation, such as included in a Customer Model, a Binary
Output File or a Customer Application).
Additional terms applicable to Source Code Generation Option
As long as the Source Code Generation Option license is valid, DS grants Customer a non-exclusive, non-transferable license to use,
reproduce and modify (solely for the purpose of improving, adapting to Customer’s needs and bug fixing of Source Code Output File) the
Value Added Technology strictly as integrated in the Source Code Output File in order to enable Users (and/or Extended Enterprise Users
as applicable) to operate the Output File exclusively for Customer’s internal use. In addition, and as long as the license on the Source Code
Generation Option is valid, DS grants Customer a non-exclusive, non-transferable license to distribute on a worldwide basis to any third
parties the Value Added Technology in order to enable such third parties to operate the Source Code Output File exclusively for such third
parties’ internal use.
Additional terms applicable to Binary Model Export Option
As long as the Binary Model Export Option license is valid, DS grants Customer a non-exclusive, non-transferable license to use and
reproduce the Value Added Technology strictly as integrated in the Binary Output File in order to enable Users (and/or Extended Enterprise
Users as applicable) to operate the Binary Output File exclusively for Customer’s internal use. DS grants Customer a non-exclusive, non-
transferable, license to distribute on a worldwide basis to any third parties the Value Added Technology exclusively as integrated in the
Binary Output File in order to enable such third parties to operate the Binary Output File exclusively for such third parties’ internal use.
Additional terms applicable to Real Time Simulation Option
As long as the Real Time Simulation Option license is valid, DS grants Customer a non-exclusive, non-transferable license to use, reproduce
and modify (solely for the purpose of improving, adapting to Customer’s needs and bug fixing of the Obfuscated Source Code) the Value
Added Technology strictly as integrated in the Obfuscated Source Code in order to enable Users (and/or Extended Enterprise Users as
applicable) to operate the Obfuscated Source Code exclusively for Customer’s internal use. In addition, and as long as the license on the
Real Time Simulation Option is valid, DS grants Customer a non-exclusive, non-transferable license to distribute on a worldwide basis to any
third parties the Value Added Technology integrated in the Obfuscated Source Code exclusively as embedded in a Customer Application for
such third parties’ internal use.

CATIA - 3DEXPERIENCE Design/Engineering business category:
For the Function Driven Generative Designer (6CP-GDE) Licensed Program which comprises client applications (graphical user interface)
and compute capabilities, client applications and compute capabilities shall not be operated simultaneously by more than one (1) authorized
User and/or Extended Enterprise User, as applicable.

SIMULIA - 3DEXPERIENCE Simulation business category:
Embedded Compute capability
For Licensed Programs which comprise client applications (graphical user interface) and compute capabilities, client applications and
compute capabilities shall not be operated simultaneously by more than one (1) authorized User and/or Extended Enterprise User, as
applicable.
Token Based for SIMULIA - 3DEXPERIENCE Simulation business category
Token Based DS Offerings from 3DEXPERIENCE Simulation business category may be accessed and executed by Users whose usual
workplace is limited to one Customer facility (location) where the Licensed Programs are deployed.
Token Based DS Offerings from the 3DEXPERIENCE Simulation business category, as specified in the Product Portfolio, provide a right to a
maximum number of independent or concurrent simulation jobs. Simulation jobs include solver execution and may include other operations
as specified in the Documentation (“Simulation Jobs”). The maximum number of Simulation Jobs at any time is determined by: i) the number
of tokens included in the granted DS Offerings and ii) the number of tokens required for each Simulation Job as specified in the Product
Portfolio.


DS OST for 3DEXPERIENCE R2017x Licensed Programs – November 2016                                                                                 2/7
Customer shall promptly provide DS with usage reports when requested.

SIMULIA - 3DEXPERIENCE Anatomical business category
Living Heart Human Model (6CB-SHH):
Each ordered Licensed Program grants a right to use the available content (FEA model & related intellectual property delivered with the
Licensed Program) within one (1) simultaneous Simulation Job. If Customer has been granted several Licensed Programs, the right to use
the included content in a Simulation Job can be pooled to enable individual users to execute more than one simultaneous Simulation Job.
The total number of simultaneous Simulation Jobs using the available content shall not exceed the total number of Living Heart Human
Model (6CB-SHH) Licensed Programs ordered by Customer.


3. OTHER PERMITTED USES FOR DS OFFERINGS

USE FOR CERTAIN SERVICES. Except for Development Tool Kits, Customer is authorized to use the Licensed Programs for added-value
engineering or implementation services. Added-value engineering or implementation services are services to deliver to a third party end user
any deliverable generated specifically for said third party end user from use by Customer of the Licensed Programs. In any event, Customer
may not (1) use the Licensed Programs to develop software code for (i) general distribution by any means, and whether alone or bundled or
delivered with any product, data, information, software, or other element, or (ii) any services that do not add value attributable to the
intervention of specific human skills, such as, without limitation, in a data services operation or as an application service provider, or (2)
install and/or operate and/or give access to the Licensed Programs on any hardware and/or software environment owned by or under control
of any third party unless otherwise expressly authorized in the Agreement, or (3) represent or imply to any party that it is an authorized or
certified provider of services for DS. Customer shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless DS against any claim, expense, judgment,
damage or loss (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) which arises out of or in any way relates to Customer’s use of the Licensed Programs
with third party end users.

SIMULIA - 3DEXPERIENCE Simulation – Anatomical business category:
LICENSE AND USE RIGHTS: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Article “Grant” of the Agreement, DS grants Customer, from
the Effective Date of the license, a non-exclusive and non-transferable (except as expressly permitted in the Agreement) right, for the
duration identified in the Transaction Document and solely for its internal business use, to (i) modify the databases provided within the
Anatomical Licensed Programs and (ii) copy the Anatomical Licensed Programs.
Unless DS provides express written consent otherwise, Customer (i) is only permitted to make modifications to databases provided within
the Anatomical Licensed Program from within the graphical user interface of another Licensed Program which is necessary to run the
Anatomical Licensed Program, or with a dedicated, stand-alone, text editor (for example Microsoft Word or Emacs) and (ii) shall use
simulation results obtained from the Anatomical Licensed Program solely in combination with any other Licensed Programs, excluding any
other software and open source, that is capable of creating a numerical or finite element based model, and (iii) shall not translate the
Anatomical Licensed Programs into any other proprietary or commercial numerical or finite element based modeling or solution format.
Customer is expressly prohibited from distributing any text file, or any portion thereof, which is necessary to run the Anatomical Licensed
Program.

OWNERSHIP: Customer shall retain title to all modifications made to the databases included within the Anatomical Licensed Program.
Modifications may include, without limitation, the insertion by Customer of medical devices or additional or alternative material definitions into
the Anatomical Licensed Program. Customer agrees that DS may create derivatives works or enhance the Anatomical Licensed Program
which may contain similar or identical modifications to those made to the Anatomical Licensed Program by Customer. In such a case, DS
shall retain title to its own modifications or creations and Customer will not bring any claim against DS or any DS Group Company related to
such derivative work or enhancement.

WARRANTY: DS does not warrant that the Anatomical Licensed Program will materially conform to its Documentation if Customer modifies
the Anatomical Licensed Program in any way.


4. SPECIFIC TERMS FOR THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE

The specific terms relating to the use of certain third party software components or products not developed by or for a DS Group Company
and granted to Customer to be used in connection with or within a DS Offering are defined hereafter:

4.1     OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE

The DS Offerings may include open source software components. Whenever notices (such as acknowledgment, copies of licenses or
attribution notice) are required by the original licensor, such notices are included in the Documentation of the DS Offerings.

Moreover, some components may not be distributed and licensed under the terms of the Agreement but under the terms of their original
licenses as set forth in the Documentation of the DS Offerings themselves. Source code for these components is available upon request.


DS OST for 3DEXPERIENCE R2017x Licensed Programs – November 2016                                                                               3/7
Except for components mentioned in the section “EXCLUSIONS” below, the warranty, indemnification and Support Services provided by DS
under the Agreement apply to all such open source software components and shall be provided by DS and not by the original licensor, but
only for the use of the DS Offerings that is in compliance with the terms of the Agreement, and in conjunction with the DS Offerings. The
original licensors of said open source software components provide them on an “as is” basis and without any liability whatsoever to
Customer.

4.2     ADDITIONAL THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE TERMS

The following terms apply in addition to the Agreement:

        Oracle
        The following terms also apply if Customer is granted licenses of Oracle software:
        1. The Oracle software licenses shall be used only in conjunction with the Licensed Programs.
        2. Customer shall not publish the results of any benchmark tests run on the Oracle software.
        3. Oracle is a third party beneficiary of the Agreement.
        4. The parties agree to exclude the Agreement from the applicability of the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act.
        5. Some Oracle software may include source code that Oracle may provide as part of its standard shipment of Oracle software and
           such source code shall be governed by the Oracle agreement.
        6. Customer shall not assign the licenses of the Oracle software or the Oracle agreement insofar as it relates to the Oracle software
           or rent or lease the Oracle software.

        Support for Oracle Software
        Customer may not contact Oracle for support for Oracle software licensed through DS. Customer may not contact DS for support for
        Oracle software not licensed through DS.

        Sencha components
        Customer is not authorized to use Sencha components in any other application other than the one with which it is distributed.

        Oracle Instant Client:
        The following terms apply in addition to Oracle terms above if Customer is granted licenses of Oracle Instant Client software:
        1. Customer shall comply fully with all applicable export and import laws to assure that neither the Oracle software, nor any direct
             product thereof, are exported, directly or indirectly, in violation of applicable laws.

4.3     EXCLUSIONS

The warranty, indemnification and Support Services provided by DS under the Agreement are not applicable to third party software
components listed hereunder:

          Sun Microsystems Java Development Kit (JDK) and Apache TomEE+ (including both Tomcat and Java EE) from the Apache
          Foundation may be delivered for Customer convenience but will not be maintained nor supported by DS through the Support
          Services.

The Support Services provided by DS under the Agreement are not applicable for the open source components listed hereunder:

          Motif for Linux


5. DEFINITIONS

The following definitions are supplementary to the section “Definitions” of the Agreement.

Binary Model Export Option means an option of the Licensed Program that will allow Customer to generate Binary Output Files.

Binary Output File means output generated by the Binary Model Export Option in the form of an application which may operate
independently from any other application and based on the Customer Model. A Binary Output File (i) contains Value Added Technology and
(ii) has a structure dictated by Value Added Technology integrated in the Licensed Program.

Configuration or Package means a standard set of DS Offerings which are bundled together. The DS Offerings composing such
Configuration or Package shall only be operated together.

Customer Application means a software program in Object Code format that Customer has created and which integrates, in whole or in
part, Value Added Technology, a Source Code Output File and/or a Binary Output File.



DS OST for 3DEXPERIENCE R2017x Licensed Programs – November 2016                                                                          4/7
Customer Model means the model used as input in the Licensed Program and whose purpose is to model, simulate and/or control systems.

Derivative Work means work that Customer has derived from a Licensed Program including Value Added Technology (including without
limitation by incorporating, translating, or modifying, in whole or in part, any such Licensed Program), and which, if made without DS's
authorization, would constitute copyright infringement. For the avoidance of doubt, (i) a library incorporating in whole or in part one or more
libraries provided with a Licensed Program shall be considered as a Derivative Work of said one or more libraries but (ii) a Customer Model
merely referencing Value Added Technology is not considered as a Derivative Work.

Development Tool Kit means a DS Offering specifically designed for application or content development. A Development Tool Kit is either
identified (i) with “CAA” or “ENOVIA Studio” in the DS Offering name, or (ii) in the Transaction Document and/or the Product Portfolio.

Extended Enterprise User means an employee of Customer’s affiliate(s), supplier(s) and/or customer(s) authorized to use Customer’s DS
Offering for the sole and exclusive purpose of enabling the Extended Enterprise User(s) to conduct business with Customer. The use of the
DS Offering by any such Extended Enterprise User(s) 1) shall be solely limited to use (a) as configured and deployed by Customer and (b) in
connection with the Extended Enterprise User’s performance of services for and on behalf of Customer, and 2) shall exclude any use by
Extended Enterprise User (a) for its own account or a third party’s account, or (b) for the purpose of modifying, otherwise using, maintaining
or hosting the DS Offering. Extended Enterprise Users are authorized if so specified in the Product Portfolio.

Machine means a computer equipment on which a Licensed Program is executed (1) (a) belonging to Customer or under its sole control or
supervision and (b) located on Customer’s premises (provided when applicable that Users and Extended Enterprise Users, as applicable,
may occasionally use laptop computers outside Customer’s premises) or (2) operated by a third party service provider as specifically
authorized in the Agreement solely for and on behalf of Customer, in the same country.

Obfuscated Source Code means a version of the Source Code generated by the Real Time Simulation Option preventing usual viewing
and understanding by a qualified programmer of the said Source Code.

Object Code means computer-programming code, substantially or entirely in binary form, which is directly executable by a computer.

Product Portfolio means a set of information related to the DS Offerings available at http://www.3ds.com/terms/product-portfolio.

Real Time Simulation Option means an option of the Licensed Program that will allow Customer to generate Obfuscated Source Code for
the primary purpose of real-time simulation.

Remote Access means, if so specified in the Product Portfolio, that Users and/or Extended Enterprise Users may access and use the DS
Offering remotely via the Internet from any country (subject inter alia to the export and re-export laws and regulations provisions of the
Agreement).

Source Code means computer-programming code and related comment(s) and procedural and/or declarative code, which is not directly
executable by a computer and may be printed out or displayed in a readable form and understandable by a qualified programmer. Source
Code also includes header files and other human-readable files necessary for a Customer Application to be compiled.

Source Code Generation Option means an option of the Licensed Program that will allow the Customer to process the Customer Model
through value added processing and to generate a Source Code Output File based on said Customer Model.

Source Code Output File means output generated in the form of Source Code by the Source Code Generation option and based on the
Customer Model. A Source Code Output File (i) contains Value Added Technology and (ii) has a structure dictated by the Value Added
Technology integrated in the Licensed Program.

User means any (a) Customer’s employee, or (b) employee of Customer’s consultant(s) or subcontractor(s) (i) who accesses a DS Offering,
(ii) who works for the exclusive internal needs of Customer and (iii) whose usual workplace is located within Customer’s premises. For
Academic Use of DS Offering, User means (i) any individual who works for Customer and is dedicated either to education or research or (ii)
any individual regularly enrolled as a bona fide student in Customer’s academic program.

Value Added Technology means any portion or file of the Licensed Program, in any form or format that may be provided therewith, or any
method used during the processing of the Customer Model by the Licensed Program, which is integrated in the Source Code Output File, the
Binary Output File and/or the Customer Application. Without limitation, libraries (and their templates) of DS or its licensors and know-how or
trade secrets of DS included in the Licensed Program shall be deemed Value Added Technology. For purpose of clarity, the method used by
the Licensed Program to handle equations during Source Code Output File and Binary Output File generation shall be deemed to be DS’s
knowhow and trade-secret.




DS OST for 3DEXPERIENCE R2017x Licensed Programs – November 2016                                                                            5/7
PRICING STRUCTURES

ALC means Annual License Charge which is a yearly charge. For the first year of each license of each DS Offering, ALC is due together
with the PLC or TBL, as applicable. Payment of the ALC for a DS Offering entitles Customer to (i) Support Services for the DS Offering for
one (1) year and (ii) a license (subject to the conditions set forth in the Agreement) to use the Release(s) of such DS Offering made available
by DS during such year, in lieu of the license(s) on the previous Release(s) of the DS Offering delivered to Customer. The applicable price
for the ALC for any given year is the price of the previous year plus the last percentage of increase applicable to the license of a DS Offering
in a given country, as published at http://www.3ds.com/terms/price at least ninety (90) days before renewal date. However, such increase
shall not exceed the increase which would have resulted from the revision of the price of the ALC according to the applicable price index
since the date of the last price increase published by DS at http://www.3ds.com/terms/price for the related DS Offering.

PLC means Primary License Charge applicable to each license of a DS Offering ordered under the PLC/ALC pricing structure. The PLC is a
one-time and non-refundable charge. Payment of the PLC for a DS Offering provides Customer with a perpetual license (subject to the
conditions set forth in the Agreement) to use the Release of such DS Offering made available by DS on the Effective Date of the license.

QLC means the Quarterly License Charge for use of a DS Offering, subject to the conditions set forth in the Agreement. Payment of the QLC
for a DS Offering entitles Customer to (i) a three (3) months license to use the Release of a DS Offering and its subsequent Release(s), if
any, as made available by DS during such quarter, in lieu of the license(s) on the previous Release(s) of such DS Offering, and (ii) Support
Services for the DS Offering for such three months period. QLC is not automatically renewable.

TBL means Term Based License charge applicable to each license of a DS Offering ordered under the TBL/ALC pricing structure. The TBL
is a one-time and non-refundable charge. Payment of the TBL for a DS Offering provides Customer with a license for a period as described
in the Product Portfolio and in the Transaction Document (subject to the conditions set forth in the Agreement) to use the Release of such
DS Offering made available by DS on the Effective Date of the license. “TBLx” is a TBL for a period of “x” years. As an example, “TBL2” is a
TBL for a period of two (2) years. TBL is not automatically renewable.

YLC means the Yearly License Charge for use of a DS Offering, subject to the conditions set forth in the Agreement. Payment of the YLC for
a DS Offering entitles Customer to (i) a one (1) year license to use the Release of a DS Offering and its subsequent Release(s), if any, as
made available by DS during such year, in lieu of the license(s) on the previous Release(s) of such DS Offering, and (ii) Support Services for
the DS Offering for one (1) year. The applicable price for the YLC for any given year is the price of the previous year plus the last percentage
of increase applicable to the use of a DS Offering in a given country, as published at http://www.3ds.com/terms/price at least ninety (90)
days before renewal date. However, such increase shall not exceed the increase which would have resulted from the revision of the price of
the YLC according to the applicable price index since the date of the last price increase published by DS at http://www.3ds.com/terms/price
for the related DS Offering.


LICENSING SCHEMES

Casual Named User Based means, when mentioned in a Transaction Document and with respect to a given DS Offering to which this OST
applies, that the use of such DS Offering by a Named User shall not exceed forty (40) hours per calendar month unless otherwise stated in
the Transaction Document and/or the Product Portfolio if available.

Concurrent (or Floating) Based. Use of a DS Offering in Concurrent Based mode is authorized for a maximum number of simultaneous
Users and/or Extended Enterprise Users, as applicable.

Extended Enterprise Named User means an Extended Enterprise User identified with a unique username and password to use the DS
Offering from a single machine at any given time.

Named User means a User identified with a unique username and password to use the DS Offering from a single machine at any given
time.

Named User Based. Use of a DS Offering in Named User Based mode is authorized for the maximum number of Named Users and/or
Extended Enterprise Named Users, as applicable, defined in related Transaction Document. If so specified in the Product Portfolio, certain
DS Offerings used in Named User Based mode can be run on several machines at the same time, within the limit of the consumption
capacity of the Token Based licenses. Customer shall not use any automated program or “user agent” program or utilities for multiple Users
and/or Extended Enterprise Users, as applicable, and Customer shall ensure that Named Users and Extended Enterprise Named Users do
not share or use the same username and password. Customer may replace Named User(s) or Extended Enterprise Named User(s), as
applicable, as necessary to reflect permanent personnel change(s), provided that the number of individuals authorized to use the DS
Offering does not exceed the maximum number of rights granted to Customer for such DS Offering. Upon DS’s request, Customer shall
provide DS with a signed document listing (i) the number of Named Users and Extended Enterprise Named Users, as applicable, (ii) the type
of use of the DS Offerings, and (iii) the locations and types of the systems on which DS Offerings operate or Customer has installed the DS
Offering(s) as applicable. DS may provide Customer with one or more utilities, either included within the DS Offering(s) or separately, for the
purpose of analyzing access right(s) and utilization, to establish usage by Customer. In such case, Customer shall provide, if applicable, the


DS OST for 3DEXPERIENCE R2017x Licensed Programs – November 2016                                                                             6/7
unedited and unmodified output file(s) and/or report(s) resulting from the operation(s) of such utility(ies), along with a signed declaration that
the file(s) is(are) representative of actual DS Offering(s) usage. Customer is responsible for implementing all reasonable means to monitor
its compliance with the terms of the Agreement.

System License means a right to use certain DS Offerings for a specific database instance or as may be otherwise indicated in the Product
Portfolio. A minimum number of Named User’s (or Extended Enterprise Named User’s, as applicable) rights to use certain identified DS
Offerings may be required in order to be granted a System License. If the name of the DS Offering includes a specific reference to
“Departmental Site License”, such DS Offering shall be used only within a particular department of Customer at a particular office, building or
physical location which shall be identified in the Transaction Document.
Customer may be requested to order certain DS Offerings rights to use, to be granted a System License.

Token Based. Use of a DS Offering granted in Token Based mode provides a right to use a determined number of tokens for the duration of
the license. Tokens are reserved for one use at a time and when released, are available for other uses. The quantity of tokens required for a
given use of the DS Offering is determined in the Product Portfolio and/or in the Documentation, and may be changed in the event of
modifications to such DS Offering. Pool of tokens of same type can be accessed and used simultaneously by one or several authorized
Users and/or Extended Enterprise Users and/or Machines, as applicable within the limit of the number of available tokens.
Tokens of given type(s) may be required to enable use of other DS Offering.


6. TRADEMARKS

3DEXPERIENCE, the Compass logo and the 3DS logo, CATIA, SOLIDWORKS, ENOVIA, DELMIA, SIMULIA, GEOVIA, EXALEAD, 3D VIA,
BIOVIA, NETVIBES, 3DSWYM, IFWE and 3DEXCITE are commercial trademarks or registered trademarks of Dassault Systèmes, a French
“société européenne” (Versailles Commercial Register # B 322 306 440), or its subsidiaries in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other
trademarks are owned by their respective owners. Use of any Dassault Systèmes or its subsidiaries trademarks is subject to their express
written approval.

DS Offerings and services names may be trademarks or service marks of Dassault Systèmes or its subsidiaries.




DS OST for 3DEXPERIENCE R2017x Licensed Programs – November 2016                                                                               7/7
