                     LICENSED PROGRAMS TERMS FOR CATIA –UP VERSION 5 RELEASE 20

Terms that are initially capitalized            are    defined   in   the   Glossary -   Release   1,   available   at
http://www.3ds.com/terms/glossary.

These Licensed Programs Terms (“LPT”) and the terms incorporated herein by reference (including terms
referenced on a website), are an integral part of the license agreement between DS and Licensee
(“Agreement”), which refers to this LPT. In the event of a discrepancy, inconsistency or contradiction
between this LPT and the other terms of the Agreement, the provisions of this LPT shall prevail, but only with
respect to the Licensed Programs to which this LPT applies. Licensee acknowledges that it has full
knowledge of all these terms and those incorporated herein by reference.


AVAILABLE PRICING STRUCTURES
Licenses and Support Service on the Licensed Programs to which this LPT applies may be ordered
according to one of the following pricing structures:
             PLC/ALC, or
             YLC
Other pricing structures may be made available on a case by case basis.


LICENSING SCHEMES & GEOGRAPHIC SCOPE
The licenses on the Licensed Programs to which this LPT applies are granted pursuant to the Agreement for
the following usage and authorized users:
                           up to the number of Users for which licenses have been ordered,
                           in Concurrent Based mode or as Add-on Products,
                           and only for use in the country for which the license is ordered.

Users whose usual workplace is located in the same country as the country where such use of the Licensed
Program has been authorized, may use the Licensed Program in any other country (subject inter alia to the
Export and Reexport laws and regulations provision of the Agreement) for purposes of a business trip of a
maximum of thirty (30) consecutive days.


OTHER PERMITTED USES

USE FOR CERTAIN SERVICES. Except for Development Tool Kits, Licensee is authorized to use such
Licensed Programs for added-value engineering and/or implementation services. Added-value engineering
or implementation services are services to deliver to a third party end user any deliverable generated
specifically for said third party end user from use by Licensee of the Licensed Programs. In any event,
Licensee may not (A) use the Licensed Programs to develop software code for (i) general distribution by any
means, and whether alone or bundled or delivered with any product, data, information, software, or other
element, or (ii) any services that do not add value attributable to the intervention of specific human skills,
such as, without limitation, in a data services operation or as an applications service provider, or (B) install
and/or operate the Licensed Programs on any hardware and/or software environment owned by or under
control of any third party, or (C) represent or imply to any party that it is an authorized or certified provider of
services for DS. Licensee shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless DS against any claim, expense,
judgment, damage, or loss (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) which arises out of or in any way relates to
Licensee’s use of the Licensed Programs with third party end users.

OUTSOURCING TO A THIRD PARTY. Licensee is authorized to execute the Licensed Programs remotely
on computers operated by third parties, provided that only duly authorized Users, and/or Extended
Enterprise Users if applicable, shall have access to the Licensed Programs. Licensee may appoint a third
party, such as an outsourcer, to operate the hardware on which the Licensed Programs are installed, on
behalf of Licensee, only if (i) Licensee does not assign the Agreement or any licenses granted thereunder, in
whole or in part, to the third party, (ii) the third party and Licensee enter into a written Agreement under



      DS LPT - CATIA up to Version 5 Release 20 - April 2010                                                        1/2
which the third party agrees that its access to and use of the Licensed Programs is subject to all of the grant
of license, confidentiality, restrictions, and limitations on use provisions of the Agreement, and (iii) such third
party is not a competitor of any DS Group Company. Licensee acknowledges and agrees that the third party
shall be deemed an agent of Licensee. If Licensee becomes aware of any actual or suspected unauthorized
use or disclosure of the Licensed Programs, Licensee shall immediately terminate the third party’s access to
and use of the Licensed Programs. Licensee shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless DS against any
claim, expense, judgment, damage, or loss (including reasonable attorneys’ fees) which arises out of or in
any way relates to each third party’s access to or use of the Licensed Programs.


SECURITY MECHANISMS
DS and its affiliated companies take all legal steps to eliminate piracy of their software products. In this
context, the Licensed Programs may include a security mechanism that can detect the installation or use of
illegal copies of the Licensed Programs, and collect and transmit data about those illegal copies only. Data
collected will not include any Licensee data created with the Licensed Programs. By using the Licensed
Programs, Licensee consents to such detection and collection of data, as well as its transmission and use if
an illegal copy is detected. DS also reserves the right to use a hardware lock device, license administration
software, and/or a license authorization key to control access to the Licensed Programs. Licensee may not
take any steps to avoid or defeat the purpose of any such measures. Use of any Licensed Programs without
any required lock device or authorization key provided by DS is prohibited.




      DS LPT - CATIA up to Version 5 Release 20 - April 2010                                                    2/2
